Add guide for onboarding private GitRepository sources (#187)
fluxcd/website: content/en/docs/guides/onboarding-private-repo.md

than on a per-repo basis; you will have to manage access on the org/team/
user-level. 

### HTTP/S Basic Auth Token Access
1. Log into a GitHub service account that has `admin` access to the repo you 
are onboarding, and visit [settings/tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens) 
to generate a Personal Access Token with `repo` scope. 
2. Bootstrap your cluster with the token. Note that we add the `--token-auth` 
flag, which lets Flux know that it should use your `GITHUB_TOKEN` permanently 
for auth in the cluster.
If you already bootstrapped your cluster when getting started but did not add 
this flag, it is fine to re-run the bootstrap command. 
```sh
export GITHUB_TOKEN=$GITHUB_TOKEN
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/my-cluster \
  --token-auth
```
3.  You can verify that Flux has saved your `GITHUB_TOKEN` for ongoing 
authentication by checking the `flux-system` secret in the `flux-system` 
namespace:
```sh
kubectl get secret flux-system -n flux-system -o yaml
# You should see the `data.username` and `data.password` fields
```

> 4. When onboarding a new GitRepository that is private, make sure to use the 
> HTTP/S protocol in `spec.url` and reference the `flux-system` secret with your 
> creds in `spec.secretRef`. 

Reviewer: This statement on its own seems might be misunderstood meaning it's not possible to use SSH keys with private repos.
Ultimately, it's under a specific section about using shared tokens, but a quick reader may miss that.

```suggestion
4. Now, when adding any new, private GitRepository, you can use the HTTP/S protocol in `spec.url`
and reference the shared token `flux-system` Secret within `spec.secretRef`. This will authenticate
the repository fetch without requiring an new, individual token or SSH deploy key to be generated.
```

---
title: "Onboarding a Private Git Repository"
linkTitle: "Onboarding a Private Git Repository"
weight: 20
---

# Onboarding a Private Git Repository

This guide walks you through the common use-case of onboarding a private GitRepository source.

The below examples and instructions assume you are using GitHub, but the same 
can apply for other providers and their support for access-token password auth.

## Creating Per-Repo Deploy Keys

> For detailed instructions on setting up per-repo deploy keys using SOPS/SSH- or

Reviewer 2: Please add a new line after the title, not only here but below as well.

to generate a Personal Access Token with `repo` scope. 
2. Bootstrap your cluster with the token. Note that we add the `--token-auth` 
flag, which lets Flux know that it should use your `GITHUB_TOKEN` permanently 
for auth in the cluster.
If you already bootstrapped your cluster when getting started but did not add 
this flag, it is fine to re-run the bootstrap command. 
```sh
export GITHUB_TOKEN=$GITHUB_TOKEN
flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=fleet-infra \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/my-cluster \
  --token-auth
```
3.  You can verify that Flux has saved your `GITHUB_TOKEN` for ongoing 
authentication by checking the `flux-system` secret in the `flux-system` 
namespace:
```sh
kubectl get secret flux-system -n flux-system -o yaml
# You should see the `data.username` and `data.password` fields
```
4. Now, when adding any new, private GitRepository, you can use the HTTP/S protocol in `spec.url`
and reference the shared token `flux-system` Secret within `spec.secretRef`. This will authenticate
the repository fetch without requiring an new, individual token or SSH deploy key to be generated.

> #### CLI Example

Reviewer 2: Let's merge this with the section below, similar to what we do in the "Get Started" here https://fluxcd.io/docs/get-started/#add-podinfo-repository-to-flux

```yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
kind: GitRepository
metadata:
    name: my-private-repo
    namespace: flux-system
spec:
    interval: 1m
    url: https://github.com/my-org/my-private-repo
    # since we are using a private GitHub repo, the below 
    # section is needed to tell Flux to use the GitHub token in the 
    # flux-system Secret for HTTP/S basic auth when syncing
    secretRef:
        name: flux-system
    ref:
        branch: master
```

### Note on namespaces
**Note** that if you wish to manage your tenant `GitRepository` sources as part of a namespace that is _not_ flux-system (e.g. the `apps` namespace, [as in the multi-tenancy example](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-multi-tenancy/blob/main/tenants/base/dev-team/sync.yaml#L5)), the private source will not be able to read from the `flux-system` Secret.

You will have to manually create a Kubernetes Secret with the `data.username` and `data.password` fields in the namespace that you are creating your `GitRepository` sources in. To keep Secrets private, consider using [kubeseal](sealed-secrets.md).
```sh
# for GitRepository private sources stored in the `apps` namespace

> kubectl create secret generic repo-auth -n apps \

Reviewer 2: Please replace this with `flux create secret git` e.g. :

```
  flux create secret git podinfo-auth \
    --namespace=apps \
    --url=https://github.com/stefanprodan/podinfo \
    --username=username \
    --password=password
```

```yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
kind: GitRepository
metadata:
    name: my-private-repo
    namespace: flux-system
spec:
    interval: 1m
    url: https://github.com/my-org/my-private-repo
    # since we are using a private GitHub repo, the below 
    # section is needed to tell Flux to use the GitHub token in the 
    # flux-system Secret for HTTP/S basic auth when syncing
    secretRef:
        name: flux-system
    ref:
        branch: master
```

### Note on namespaces

**Note** that if you wish to manage your tenant `GitRepository` sources as part of a namespace that is _not_ flux-system (e.g. the `apps` namespace, [as in the multi-tenancy example](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-multi-tenancy/blob/main/tenants/base/dev-team/sync.yaml#L5)), the private source will not be able to read from the `flux-system` Secret.

You will have to manually create a Kubernetes Secret with the `data.username` and `data.password` fields in the namespace that you are creating your `GitRepository` sources in. To keep Secrets private, consider using [kubeseal](sealed-secrets.md).
```sh
# for GitRepository private sources stored in the `apps` namespace

> kubectl create secret git repo-auth \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
flux create secret git repo-auth \
```

Also please fix the indentation below

    --namespace=apps \
    --url=https://github.com/my-org/my-private-repo \
	--username=$GITHUB_USER \

> 	--password=$GITHUB_TOKEN

Reviewer 2: This command creates the secret in-cluster, it needs `--export > my-secret.yaml`, I think it's best to link to https://fluxcd.io/docs/cmd/flux_create_secret_git/

Author: Thanks for pointing this out - I added the `--export` to the code example and linked to `flux create secret git`. At my org we don't check secrets into source control so we just created the Secret this way.

---
title: "Onboarding a Private Git Repository"
linkTitle: "Onboarding a Private Git Repository"
weight: 20
---

> # Onboarding a Private Git Repository

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

The front-matter at the top basically replaces the `h1` (`# ...`).

This guide walks you through the common use-case of onboarding a private GitRepository source.

The below examples and instructions assume you are using GitHub, but the same 
can apply for other providers and their support for access-token password auth.

## Creating Per-Repo Deploy Keys

For detailed instructions on setting up per-repo deploy keys using SOPS/SSH- or
 token-based Git authentication, see [the documentation in our flux2-multi-tenancy example](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2-multi-tenancy#onboard-tenants-with-private-repositories).

## Sharing Token Auth Across Repos

If you are managing a multi-tenant cluster with Flux, you can cut a Personal 
Access Token with `repo` access from a GitHub service account and use that 
token for authenticating multiple private GitRepository sources.

The benefits of sharing a token across multiple tenants instead of using 
per-repo deploy keys include:
* Control access for all of Flux using GitHub's ACLs like Teams (composes well
 if you're using Terraform to manage GitHub)
* You only have to manage/create one secret per cluster/namespace instead of 
per-repo.

> The tradeoff is that revocation of access with a shared token is less granular 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The trade-off is that revocation of access with a shared token is less granular 
```
